We've been working with
the online editors, but
we have to run everything locally.
So this is how we would start by importing
as specific modules from Three.js and
our Three.js paths that we are downloading
is listed on tsconfig file.
It is also looking for some of the
Three.js's extra files, which is kind of
confusing because they are part of
the examples, not part of the package.
So I did add them for you.
And if you look at our server,
we have a very simple
Express Node.js server and
it is serving our folders for
Three.js and extra folders of Three.js.
And now I can type in npm run dev,
which will run the type scripts and
start our server at port 3000.
So now if you go to your browser and
type in localhost:3000,
you should see what we have here.
I wanted to create the same thing
that we have in the Three.js editor here.
So far what we have is
a canvas element most of time.
The examples are creating a canvas
element and adding it to the HTML.
I kind of think that it's
unnecessary because HTML is so
much more performing and
it happens really fast.
And having to run the JavaScript code to
add another canvas if that's the only
thing that you're going to do
is kind of waste of the energy.
So instead, I added to my HTML and
then call it by getElementByID.
We have the PerspectiveCamera with
the same settings and the Scene.
Finally, we have the rendering.
Let's talk about the antialias thing.
This is what makes your 3D
models not very square like,
not like minecraft, so basically it
smooths out the edges a little bit.
And instead of adding a new canvas here,
we are saying the canvas
that you will use is this one
that we selected earlier.
And we have a SphereGeometry and
I use the radius,
first thing is the radius
which is 0.5 units.
And then this are the height and width
segments that we play with on the editor.
After that we translate
the position of it and
define our materials.
So for our material too,
we were able to add wireframe
on the editor,
we can also do the same thing here.
So as you can see we do
have a lot of polygons,
so we can actually maybe reduce those.
So we were looking at
the antialiasing on our renderer.
So antialiasing if we enable it,
that allows our models,
renderer actually to
render less pixelated.
So it will be less of the big squares and
then smooth edges on the shapes.
So we have the renderer with our
canvas that is already in our HTML.
Now we have the SphereGeometry,
we are running our dev server,
so we can go ahead and
see what is happening.
So as you can see there's a lot
of vertices we have to, well,
we don't need this much.
So I'm going to lower
the number of segments,
Maybe 14 here too.
And when we refresh it, we should be
able to see less and still smooth edges.
So this is good for our purposes.
I'm going to comment out the wireframe.
wireframe part is the part
that is rendering
the polygons instead of
running a smooth material.
Here I have a random color generator, so
every time basically I refresh it,
we have a different color just for fun.
And our earth Mesh includes this geometry
that we just created and material.
We have two functions that we are running,
one of them is init function
which we define all of the things
that are necessary for the scene,
that will run just once.
And the animate function, that's
the function that will run 60 frames per
second and
we'll get to their definition below.
First thing that we are setting for
the renderer, the PixelRatio,
we are using the by devicePixelRatio.
And we are setting the size to
fill up all of our screen with
setting it to window.innerWdth and
innerHeight.
And we are adding a new event listener
when our maybe screen is resized,
then we have to take
the windows new innerWidth and
innerHeight and re-render it.
If we don't do that,
we will have some distorted objects
instead of the actual objects
that we first created.
I would like to keep
the camera on 0,0,0 because
whenever you are on a device like HoloLens
or maybe some other devices also.
The person who is wearing it is
the camera and they are the 0,0,0,
they are the start.
So everything that you create, you have to
move it a little bit for people to see it.
Because of that, I'm moving it on
the z axis and adding it to our scene.
onWindowResize, again we are setting
the aspect ratio of the camera and
then we are updating
the projection matrix.
This is going to define where
the things are going to be,
how they're going to be projected
with using the new aspect ratio.
And setting this renderer.setSize
window.innerWidth and
height and render it again so
all of these changes will apply.
We have the animate function.
This is actually was supposed
to be requestAnimationFrame,
Function that is taking the animate again.
The second one is for VR purposes we
are going to use that in next one.
If we are not in VR yet,
we can use requestAnimationFrame and
again, we're adding to the y-axis.
So it kind of turns in one direction
that looks like Earth's rotation.
And one thing that we
are missing is light and
you can copy the lights information here.
Its the HemisphereLight and
position is set outside
of the center and
then we add it to the scene.
All right, we can add this light
information to our init functions
because it's going to run once
when we initiate the scene.
And we saw what the bump map
does to our Earth's geometry.
This is a great example from the three.js
examples of how you can use to
render the details of skin.
This is very interesting.
If you take out the bump map,
it will not look like anything
like a person at all.
And now I think I want to
go to the same materials.
I'll just copy and paste this one to
make sure that they are the same.
So, Okay, I'm going to paste it here.
For textures,
we have to use the TextureLoader and
load the files that are in here.
Well, we can just comment out this one.
It's doing the same thing,
but we also have
to move material information
up a little bit or
move geometry down, all right?
Now we have it.
So we don't need
the randomized color anymore.
Few other things that I'm defining
is specular on this material,
which is the attribute that makes
it a little bit more like a mirror.
shininess is how much light
will be reflected off of it.
And bumpMap as we saw in
the Earth bump example,
the same one, and
we are defining the scale of it.
This will change how
much it's being applied.
And we also have the texture now we
are defining instead of using the editor.
Cool, let's take a look.
Yeah, finally.
We do have our 3D Earth.
It's turning a little bit too fast.
[LAUGH] It's dizzyingly fast, so
let's lower the animation a bit.
I'm just going to add another
0 here to the rotation.y.
So we have a little bit more reasonable
time passing in our new Earth.
I don't see as much of a bump map,
it's not looking very good.
So I'm going to increase
the materials bump a little bit,
maybe to 15 and see what it does.
Maybe even much higher.
All right, so it's up to you to decide
how much of it you want to happen.